More than a musician himself, 28-year-old Luis Castillo is another creative shaking some soul into San Francisco. As one of the co-founders of the radio show Hyde FM, Castillo and his partner Denis Makhlin have built a loyal following by championing underground sounds and an eclectic array of genres with the goal of building a community for themselves and letting SF be known for more than just computers and crushed startup dreams.

In 2017, Castillo left Orange County, purposefully choosing San Francisco over Los Angeles, not being particularly interested in the city’s archetype at the time. He found himself working a pizza delivery job where he met his “cofounder, buddy [and] best friend” Makhlin. The two bonded almost immediately over similar tastes in music, deciding together that they would get involved in the scene somehow, someway. 

“We didn’t know really how to do it.” Castillo can attest to how intimidating it may seem when one finds themself in a new city, searching for direction and purpose. Not quite soul searching, but definitely a feeling many in our generation can relate to. Taking after the examples of other upcoming radio shows at the time, Castillo and Makhlin took the leap. A single idea snowballed into a website, the two moving in together and of course, the most important part—the name giving. For the last 8 years Castillo has lived on the street from which their show drew its name—Hyde.
The project first came to life right in their house and soon grew too big for the nest. “We had this really big living room…we had a DJ set up there…but we’re like how do we take it to the next level?”

Paying for a proper studio space required that they find some way to make money. With a large sum of initial out of pocket funding, eventually, Hyde FM was having live shows and parties across the city. From pulling together a mix of DJs, live bands, independent artists, and other collectives with similar visions, Castillo figured out exactly the part of this whole endeavor that called out to him. 

“Hyde is one of those…it’s a community-based thing. We’ve made it easy and attainable to get started in the [music and entertainment] scene.” Castillo explained that oftentimes to get featured on a radio or get in front of an audience, you’d have to know someone who knows someone or be fairly tenured. To me that sounded not too different from the “needing 3-5 years of experience” for an entry level job trope. While that is typically another barrier to entry that builds on the cycle of starving artists, Hyde wanted to be a part of dismantling that, letting anyone book a slot to play on their show with or without experience.

Luis1.jpeg

“I think for me that’s kind of the most rewarding thing about Hyde, that we’re able to facilitate that for SF. It’s intimidating to just start…I never really thought about it when we were there but it’s a good thing to have in any city…a community-based radio station.”

As came with the territory, building out a multitude of relationships with other likeminded creatives, Castillo “fell in love” with the behind-the-scenes work of curating and crafting an experience. While he continues to commit himself to Hyde, after learning the ins and outs, Castillo figured he could also–for lack of more glamorous words–manage talent and bookings himself. Starting with just the desire to help friends grow their music, it soon became a way to challenge himself as well. “I wanted to push myself…get them into bigger venues, other cities…” while sharing wisdom on how to succeed in their craft, having seen the beginnings of so many others. “I asked my closest friend first…I was like dude; can I just manage you? Can I help you?”

While Castillo admits these realizations came much after the fact, he pointed out that the role did have its necessity. In trying to build out some of the potential in San Francisco, some local artists could do quite well with just a little extra backing and someone to represent them. Between the pitfalls of venues and promoters seeking profit and a sort of name brand instead of the authenticity of cultivating the culture in their backyard, Castillo saw exactly where he could put his skills to use. “Instead of bringing “big” artists to the city and then just throwing locals in there” as if to say done haphazardly, he stated that it’s much more important to get “local musicians, artists, DJs, anyone…because they’re the ones that are actually within the community and are gonna bring more people.”

“I’ve always been an advocate for these guys…they’re the lifeline of the city…of the scene.” And while Castillo will never take credit for the stories of anyone that has come and gone through Hyde or himself, he testified that there are names, artists, DJs, and friends of his getting the recognition that they deserve, signing to record labels, getting booked all over the world, going on to work with great producers, studios, and so much more. In his closing words, Castillo laid out the goal here. 

Luis3.jpeg

“There’s so much untapped potential here…it’s gonna come sooner or later and I want to be a part of that moment…have it be put on for the city. SF [has been] more of a hub of the tech stuff, but there could be a balance of that and arts coexisting…with many people from the local scene breaking out and through the threshold.”

From DJing, to producing, to curating sounds across genres and subcultures, Castillo has built an eye and ear for the sights and sounds that go into crafting an experience. This career he calls his baby, born from a pizza truck, through living room turntables, a full studio in the Mission District and countless collaborations across San Francisco and its airwaves, still has so much room to grow and many other people’s lives to touch. I’m just glad I got the opportunity to sit down and talk to him.

If you ever find yourself in San Francisco, keep an eye out for Castillo and the reverberations coming from Hyde…or his four cats. 
