Q: So who is Zano? What do we need to know? If there was one thing you want to tell the people about you, what would it be? 
I feel like there's so many parts of me that make me who I am. The first thing that I would say is where I'm from. Being from Johannesburg is very important to my identity. It's something that I carry every day.
It’s not in a way where it's: “oh, I'm South African look at  me and my flag on my bedroom door.” It's more so the way that I speak to people, how I share my energy, and how there's a level of kindness that South Africans carry around them.
I feel like that's expressed a lot in the music that I play and the way that I play it, and how I ensure that when I DJ, I am sharing my energy with the people around me because when people come into spaces that are very foreign to them, or if they’ve been to the spaces hundreds of times: it either becomes repetitive, or become something that feels like home. So I need to respect those different energies in the room and cater to that, while still being you know, true to myself. 
When it comes to other things, I'm currently getting my master's in finance, which is something that a lot of people don't know. That was a choice I made because I've always wanted to work in finance more so just to tick a box in my life, and say, I can do anything and everything. On the other hand, me and my best friend Fatima started a creative studio and production house, which has been up and running for the last two months. So, my life is filled with a lot of things and a lot of people only know what I show on Instagram. 

zano/Zano4.jpg

Q: So growing up in Johannesburg what was that like? I know you went to college in the US so maybe we can talk about those high school years.  

Growing up in JHB was beautiful but very difficult. I think it’s because we are such a young democracy that came from a history that is very separatist. We were ushered into this new society 30 years ago that was built primarily on love. Not necessarily not seeing color but seeing people as people and not the color of their skin; as well as this idea that we’re all one and this is our nation which felt like it painted over the cracks of what South Africa really is. It is difficult when you come from such a broken past but the present has been made into a fairytale without addressing the hurt and pain that people have went through which definitely seeped into things like my high school experience.
It was really beautiful to be in classrooms taught by the best teachers and be around very smart and intellectual students but I do think issues of race impacted my high school experience. When you’re young, you don't really know what it is because we were put in this society where people don’t really talk about it like that. So when it would come up, I would think to myself - are they doing that because of the color of my skin or did I do something wrong. So it took me a lot of years to outgrow that mentality because I went to a British boarding school. So those colonial lessons and the way you were taught also seeped into the institution and then you put racism on top of that, it's a cake of insanity. 

"I think those intimate relationships, those intimate moments with my father, and also with my mom...a lot of the time black musicians forced me to put music into the center of my life."

When you come to a place like New York – race ends up being pretty relevant in your day to day life. How did your past experiences in JHB give you perspective as you grew in the city?
I think NY is very different because racism is very classist and it's primarily based on how you talk, what you wear, how you act and where you live. Despite my experience in South Africa being very systemic, the essence of South Africans is being kind, giving people time to listen, and actively participate in conversations enabled me to bring those values into my experience here. But I think that what I found very difficult with navigating race in New York is that in South Africa, especially in Johannesburg, a lot of places are filled with black people. So you never go into spaces feeling like you're othered, you go into spaces feeling like you belong, and nobody is going to make you feel like you’re other. Do you know what I mean? In New York, it's the total polar opposite, where a lot of spaces you come into you are the other and people don't give you room to feel like you belong.


Q: Taking a step back, how did you choose New York as the landing spot? 
So you know, it's really interesting. When I went back home in December, I was going through my old journals and my old diaries. One of the diaries that I wrote in when I was nine years old, the question was what is your dream destination? I wrote New York City. I didn't even know that it was something that I wanted to do from when I was nine but when I graduated university, the next step for me to feel like I can push myself to the limit was to come to New York. I came here, not under the idea of chasing a dream and trying to, you know, push a passion, but more because I wanted to push myself to the limits of who I am. What are my values? What are my morals? Test who I am, because I feel that the city definitely does that to you. Then my love for music and being around people who were so unapologetically themselves, allowed me to pursue this part of me where I was able to share my love for music with so many people, which is something that I didn't think would be the byproduct of me choosing to move here.
When you look at things now, what role would you say that music plays in your life?
Honestly, I think it's the central role to my life. I feel like my relationship with music started when I was very young, through my father, who introduced me to a rare array of music because he was a freedom fighter during apartheid. So when he was in the cells with Nelson Mandela, and all of them, they would all sit and listen to the radio. When he was there, he would listen to The Beatles, Guns and Roses, Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder and as he grew up, and had children, that was the music that he would introduce us to. When he would take us to school, he'd be blasting out music every single day. I think those intimate relationships, those intimate moments with my father, and also with my mom; introducing me to George Michael, Stevie Wonder, Aretha Franklin, like all of these pinnacles soulful, a lot of the time black musicians forced me to put music into the center of my life. So it's always been a part of me. Not in a cheesy way but literally, since I was really young.

zano/Zano11.jpg

Q: Let's talk about intima studios. I know, you said you had the previous collective back home, but now you have this creative studio. Who is Fatima, how do you guys meet? How did the studio come to fruition?
Intima came out of a need of us wanting to be in the center of the conversation, and us reclaiming that power back and making it about us finally.
Fatima, and I met three and a half years ago, and I moved to New York because one of my best friends who I met at college was like do you want to move which led to me moving in with her best friend in Bushwick. I remember the first moment I met her was in my apartment. She came because my friend Tenzing invited everyone. She goes oh, my God your  Zano and she asked if I can help her get ready. After that moment, we shared this -  I don't know, there was just an energy between us where it felt like I've known her for so long. From there, we just clicked but the whole idea behind Intima was, we realized that we're getting to a place in our careers and in our lives where we have gotten all of this knowledge through our experiences me through Koza, moving here and DJ’ing or her through working in high fashion. We realized that there's so many people around us that are so talented and are passionate about their creative crafts, but don't necessarily have the team around them to package them and sell it to an agency, or sell it to a big publication or brand. So we want to come in as an intermediary force between those where we can start projects or come on projects with different directors, stylists, makeup artists and basically hone in on that project, organize it, keep it crisp, keep it chic, and then sell it to the big companies. 
Something that's really important to us as well is to make sure that our narratives and our stories and our perspectives are at the center of every single project that we do. Because I feel like it's very easy to have your perspectives not really appreciated or handled with that care. That is something that's really important to us too. Intima came out of a need of us wanting to be in the center of the conversation, and us reclaiming that power back and making it about us finally.

"You walk with love, you act with love, you talk with love, and you share love."

Q: Do you have anything we can look forward to? What’s coming up? 
There's actually a lot of things coming up regarding Intima that I can share. We actually have a music video coming up that is going to launch in the next few months with this artist Keith Charles. Then we have a few shoots as well under the belts, which I feel like are going to do a lot of things for a lot of people. 

Q: With this exposure that you've had from back home to DJing to now with Intima, what would you say your favorite creatives or brands are?  What are you keeping you eye on?
I think because Intima is so rooted in me being South African and Fatima being Lebanese and both of us living in New York it is the city that centers. We try to integrate South Africa and Lebanon in what we do.  I would say a brand, or a collective that I'm keeping my eye on is Wanda Lephoto which is a South African brand. Incredible. I think a photographer that I'm definitely keeping my eye on is Jack Markovitz, a documentarian photographic artist, definitely on the map. But I think for me, I always try and keep it as local as possible. Because that is what grounds me. So whenever I go home, I'm always keeping my eye on the ground there. Because for South Africa, there is something happening there. You know what I mean? I think because it's so far away, people can't really connect with it. But I try my hardest to try and intersect those two worlds as much as I can, which I know Fatima does as well,

zano/Zano10.jpg

Q: Seems like you keep yourself busy. What is relaxation for you or better said what does that look like?
The ideal day would be me getting up at like 9, getting dressed and going to SoulCycle at 930. Then coming home, taking a shower, getting a matcha or going on a stroll music in, just like by myself centering myself, then getting a solo meal, romanticizing my life a bit.

Q: Then going back to the crib, watching a movie, or watching my favorite series, and then hitting up friends going out for dinner having a little bit too much wine, maybe some tequila shots, who knows? 
Then maybe going outside or going home. That for me is relaxation because I feel like the idea of relaxation and self care is always so extreme. It's like, book a trip to the islands and sit on the beach. I think that's an ideal point of relaxation. But I feel like if you can find it in your everyday routine. It becomes about moments of stillness throughout it all.

Q: What series or movies are you watching right now?
I think series wise, it's been very stale. I know. There's a lot of good shows but I haven't had the urge to watch anything new. But I've been rewatching Nathan For You. And I rewatched Gossip Girl. And rewatching Gossip Girl has definitely been very grounding for me. 

zano/Zano13.jpg

Q: You’ve talked about home a lot. You talk about the idea of appreciating life, people around you, and things like that from how you met Fatima and how the love for one another is a centerpiece. I wanted to know, what would you say draws you to the people that you're closest to today?
I think the people that I'm closest to today definitely have a part of them that is very selfless and is very rooted in their identity. I think that when you are rooted in your identity and your belonging and your values. That's something that I definitely gravitate towards because it's really difficult to find people that have values and stand by those and think to themselves, okay, this is what I believe in. Do you believe in the same things as me? Yes, actually, I do so let's vibe. I think that's one thing that definitely gravitates me towards the people in my life. With level three, it's something very similar, where you and Dennis are very rooted in what you want this to be and rooted in yourself and very grounded in your ideas of yourselves, you don't come into spaces trying to cosplay what you think you should be like.  In those spaces, you guys are creating that, creating those spaces for yourself, and also coming into spaces being just yourself, which I feel is very rare. 

Q: What do you think is the most important part of uplifting women who DJ?  
Yeah, I would say that I've experienced a lot of things. As a woman DJ, I'm very blessed that I haven't been physically harassed. But a lot of small, very disrespectful things have happened to me where I remember one time I was DJing and this guy in the crowd came up to me and was like, “yo, yo, can I plug in?” I said no you can't, and he even offered $200 with his USB asking me to let him plug in.
I didn't have anybody around me who would be a buffer to say, that he couldn’t do that. Obviously, it's not on women to bring their male friends around all the time to make them feel safe. Because everybody has a life. I do think that it's the venue and the organizers of parties need to make sure that women DJs feel protected, because there's so much confidence that a woman can lose that can act as a buffer, but physicality, and egos, obviously, go beyond that. So I feel like the reason why I chose Bossa Nova is a place that I've DJ’d that has made me feel the most safe is because in that space if I feel harassed, I can tell someone, and they'll kick that person out. Whereas a lot of the times when that has happened to me, nobody does anything about it. So I think it's more so on venues, and for women to choose venues that support them. I know it's very difficult if you're full time DJ and that's where you're getting your bread and butter from but if that's not the case, then I would say that women should be DJing more collective based parties, where they know who the people are rather than just at a random party, because then at least you'll be able to build a relationship with them. 

Q: On that note, who are your favorite women who DJ in the city right now? Good opportunity for you to shout somebody out. 
I really enjoy lovie world. She’s a very cool house DJ and a black woman! I also really love Las Flaquitas. They are three women doing their thing. I have to celebrate that, I have to be a part of it. I really like Dylan Ali as well. I think she's doing her thing. I feel like those three women have different sounds: lovie world is very house based, Las Flaquitas are more dance hall-esque, and Dylan is more of a hip hop DJ. They are three groups of women that are DJing male predominant genres. It's very difficult, but being at the top of your game for that is a privilege and luckily for them it's earned.

zano/Zano14.jpg

Q: What do you live by? Any quote, motto, advice that you keep close to your heart?
You walk with love, you act with love, and you talk with love, and you share love.
I think that when I do a DJ set, one thing that my mom told me was, you walk with love, you act with love, and you talk with love, and you share love. So when you're in a space, keep those four things in mind. Whatever happens is already yours and whatever isn’t yours was never meant to be yours. So don't hold on to any ideas. Just let them flow. Everything that is worthy will come to you. 

Q: When you think about when it's all said and done, where maybe you go back to Johannesburg, or maybe you just remove yourself from the scene, what does Zano want to be remembered for or as?
When I saw her, when  I had a conversation with her. She made me feel seen.
I just want to be remembered as a person that made other people feel seen. That's literally it. Although social capital is great. Having people that want you in their space is also great. Being afforded the privilege of being in these spaces is amazing. But I think that the one thing that I'd want to be remembered as is just making people feel seen, I want people to be like, oh, yeah, I remember Zano. When I saw her, when  I had a conversation with her. She made me feel seen. That's it. Everything else to me is just an additive to this experience of living, honestly.

Q: Thank you for your time. We're looking forward to your set!
Thanks Antony.