Q: Niara, we know that you've grown up in Northern Virginia. Which part of home sticks with
you most today, and how would you describe the DMV music scene? Has it inspired you as
well?


A part of home that sticks with me? I think at my core, when I think about home, I
think about WHUR, which is Howard University's radio station. I would listen to that with my
mom, and it was so impressionable on me because I was exposed to a lot of neo-soul from local
artists, as well as national and international artists with a similar sound. That has influenced my
sound now as a DJ and artist. When I was younger, I just enjoyed the music. I didn't know I
wanted to work in music or be a DJ. I didn't even know what a DJ was. I just thought, "Oh, this is
the radio playing music." Now, as I get older, I realize I'm kind of searching for music. I start from that soulful, sultry sound and look for that within every genre I'm introduced to.

niara/Niara1.jpg

Describing the DMV's music scene, we have our own sound, which started with funk music
initially with Chuck Brown and his band. Over time, it evolved into what we call Go-Go. It's
essentially funk music, but they also cover a lot of artists. That funkiness has always been within
me. The DMV has embraced a lot of music, especially Black music, because we're called
Chocolate City. I have the Ohio Players' Chocolate City record on vinyl, so it really is a melting
pot of cultures. We have Little Ethiopia, many Africans, and a lot of Southern people. DC is like
a city, but it's also the South, even when you hear the accents. Black people were pushed out
into Maryland and Virginia for different reasons, but we're all so close you could get to each area
within 30-40 minutes.

The DMV has embraced a lot of music, even down to southern Virginia with artists like Missy
Elliott, D'Angelo, and Teddy Riley. Marvin Gaye is from there, so again, back to that soulful vibe.
We have unique artists like Kelela from the Baltimore area. Baltimore has its own sound, even
though it's in Maryland. Baltimore club music helped influence Jersey club, and they've got their
own vibe now. The DMV is a melting pot of Black music, embracing it all. When I think of home,
it's really the R&B, neo-soul, and jazz, the slower, soulful, uplifting music that reminds me of
back home.

Q: Cool, thank you. Wow, you're really passionate about the music. I can hear it in the way
you speak about it. You get caught up in everything—the history, the culture. It's really nice to
hear that. The next question I want to ask is about leaving the DMV. You've been in New York
for, is it coming up to eight or nine years now? What made you choose New York as the next
destination after leaving the DMV?


Although I loved being in DC when I had my first residency, I felt that because it was
so small, I would struggle to hit the ground running the way I wanted to. I felt that New York was
close enough to home but far enough for me to dive into different pockets of music as an artist
and DJ. I thought it would be welcoming to what I wanted to do, and I was right. I felt like I made
the best decision. I don't think there's any place like New York. It has also left a huge impression
on me. I'm grateful to have this connection between where I'm from and being in New York. I felt right at home in Brooklyn. Maybe it's because DC is so Black, and Brooklyn is very Black as
well. I just enjoyed their passion and love for music.
I met so many different music enthusiasts of all ages. I didn't have to confront ageism or being a
woman, although that still had its challenges. I never experienced the pushback that new artists
often face at the beginning of their path. If I had stayed back home, I might have struggled with
the OGs already running things. It's not nearly as big as New York, so New York offered me a lot
more territory to explore.

niara/Niara2.jpg

Q: So, New York gave you space to be a lot freer creatively, but it still had those Black roots
you enjoyed from back home in the DMV, along with a bit of multiculturalism. Once you came
here, I've seen you got involved in a bunch of different things with DJing and beyond. So, could
you tell me about when you first came to New York City? Who helped you the most in becoming
a DJ and getting established?


Oh, good question. I feel like it was a collective effort from a number of people and
situations. It just snowballed. I had a few friends in New York, but I didn't really have a tribe yet.
It wasn't until I got to New York that I was really leaning heavily on my discernment and
spirituality. I just felt protected and safe, and I led with my curiosity.
One place that always comes to mind is Casablanca, formerly known as Casablanca in
Bed-Stuy on Macon Boulevard. It was like my Marvin's, which was in D.C. It no longer exists,
but it was a local neighborhood bar with great music and beautiful people. It was just a vibe. I
felt like I was in the comfort of the borough but catering to so many different people. I had the
time of my life there. It's the first time I played vinyls for real, and I would invite other DJs to
come play with me.

niara/Niara3.jpg

The manager, John, would let me practice on Tuesdays before I even had my own equipment. It
allowed me to inform myself as a DJ, build a community within Brooklyn, meet new people, and
invite other artists to play or practice if they needed to. Casablanca became a safe haven for
me, and I met so many different individuals there. I miss it so much because it was so much fun.
I still work with many artists I met there. Casablanca was a unique, one-of-a-kind experience
and place to be. It helped catapult me into bigger spaces. I wasn't even thinking about it at the
time, but someone could have seen me play there and then offer me a corporate gig. I was just
caught up in playing music that I loved, without being confined to anyone else's musical bounds.
There were other women, Black women, and people from Europe. It was amazing, and I felt like
I could do this forever. From there, I started working in other bars and spaces in Brooklyn, and it
snowballed into something else.



Q: Cool. It sounds like a really nice and organic come-up, where you were basically just
having fun exploring music with your friends and playing for the community you loved. It just
became what it is now, which is really cool. You mentioned that you're quite a spiritual person.
We know you have an incense brand and that you're really into incense. How does your
spirituality influence the music you pick and create?


That's another good question. I feel like music is very much like a chant. When I
consider who I'm going to play in front of and how I want them to feel, I treat my listeners how I
treat myself. How do I want to feel in this club? It's different because I play various genres, but
at my core, I like to lead with my spirituality, which helps with my selections.
For instance, I fell in love with Amapiano because of how it made me feel. It reminded me of
gospel music, maybe due to the keys and the singing, even when there wasn't singing. It felt so
uplifting, but I could also play it in the club. When it first came out around 2017-2018 in New
York, I was all over it. DJ AQ and DJ Mama would play it on dance nights, and it just resonated
with me. These pockets of music catered to how I like to lead my sets and helped inform my
sound. I started leaning less towards rap and hip-hop and more towards dance music because I
want people to dance at my parties.

"I want people to remember me as that girl who knows her music, came to the table, and threw it down. I want people to have that feeling about me like - you go to her sets, you're definitely dancing. That's how I want to be remembered."

I know a lot of music gets played every weekend, but I don't have to be caught up in that. I can
do something that aligns more with how I lead my life. I'm grateful to be in New York, where I
can do that. In D.C., I'd still be playing music I don't even listen to on my own. Learning to be
more genre-fluid during my sets has been important. There are moments that call for specific
things, and then there are crowds just there for a good time, and I can take them on a journey.
Even if it gets a little rowdy, I know how to bring it back. Ultimately, I want my folks to feel like
they're in a different realm, almost in a vortex, where they can release and feel free. That's my
goal with most of my sets.

niara/Niara4.jpg

Q: I remember the first time I heard Amapiano. It was a spiritual experience. You mentioned
DJ AQ, and I know you worked together at Flipper's Roller Boogie Palace and had a residency
together. Are there any other creatives or people who inspire you, maybe besides AQ?

AQ is definitely one, and I'm grateful we've been able to work together and build a
relationship. I've always admired DJ Jazzy Jeff for welcoming newer DJs while still embracing
his roots. I look forward to doing that as I grow in my journey. I love Karen KG in the UK, her
sound is fire. Kelvin Momo's private school piano ties back into that spiritual vibe I mentioned.
I'm always grateful when I have the opportunity to meet or play with these artists. My friend
Fulcrate, for example, turned from DJ to producer, and I find DJs who become producers often
understand arrangement and what the crowd wants. Fulcrate's sets make sense, and it's
seamless and beautiful. Another DJ I admire is DJ Coco, who is excellent with 45s, smooth
blends, and clean cuts. He's a turntablist, which is something I aspire to in my journey. Ash
Lauren is also dope, especially in house music, channeling her sound and roots through her
music.

niara/Niara5.jpg

Q: Wow, you mentioned so many different names from different places, genres, and skills
that you want to pick up. How do you figure out how you want to evolve? You've done so many
different things, from DJing to producing and project management. Do you go with the flow, or is
there a method?

It's funny because I feel like I'm in a unique space right now. My friend Malik Abdul
Rahman introduced me to Ikigai in 2018, which is a purpose map. It helps you figure out your
reason for being by asking four questions: What do you love? What does the world need? What
can you get paid for? What are you good at? These questions help create your reason for
being, and I often revisit this.

Right now, there's a lot going on in my life, and I'm noticing a shift. I have to take my ego out of it to allow myself to evolve. That means learning new skills and making my music. I've been
making music, but I can be neurotic and sometimes feel imposter syndrome. If I get hired for a
project, I can create original music, but making music for myself feels foreign and weird. Maybe
it's easier because I enjoy DJing other people's music, but looking at my own work is
challenging. To evolve, I need to just do it, as my peers often remind me.
I'm making arrangements that make sense, being more discerning with gigs, and focusing on
venues with sound integrity. Making music in the in-between time allows me to be more
selective with gigs, build anticipation, and create consistency and trust with my listeners. I know
what I need to do; I just need to apply it and do it.

Q: This is a bit of a funny question, but we know you have a bit of a passion for roller
skating. Usher recently did some roller skating for his Super Bowl halftime show. Would you
ever think about incorporating roller skating as part of a DJ set?


Actually, I don't have a passion for roller skating. I got asked to DJ at Rockefeller
Center, and I thought it sounded fun. I met so many people who enjoyed the set, and they kept
asking me back, so now I have this newfound passion. I'm not the best skater, but it's fun
watching people move in a confined space. It requires me to be more meticulous with my
mixing. I don't want to mess up during a roller skating set because people are passionate about
their steps and skating. I also learned a lot about JB skate music, which is like 110-115 BPM
music slowed down. It's something I stumbled upon that worked out, and I'm looking forward to
more skate gigs and improving my skating. But I don't think I'd incorporate it into a DJ set
because I'm not that skilled.

niara/Niara6.jpg

Q: I’m glad we could clear that up, and I'm sure you'll get there with your skating. Two last
questions: First, is there something you want people to know about you that they don't already
know?


I guess I want people to know that if I've ever been misunderstood or misspoke, it's
not my style to be overly transparent. I connect with my folks in the booth, and it means a lot to
me. I'm neurotic about it because I wholeheartedly care about music and how I make people
feel with what I play. I hope my passion translates through my sets and that people feel peaceful
and free when they hear my music. I'm not stuck-up or pretentious, and I'm not hard to talk to.
I'm mindful and sensitive, and I hope my legacy lies in making people feel good through my
music.

Q: Brilliant! It's about letting the music do the talking. In this age of social media, where
people see behind the scenes more, you're a bit more reserved, letting your art speak for itself.
You mentioned legacy, which brings me to my last question: When it's all said and done, what
do you, Niara, want to be remembered for or as?


I want people to remember me as someone who knows her music. I want them to feel
like, when they come to my sets, they're definitely going to dance. That's what I want to be
remembered as. I think I want people to just remember me as that girl knows her music you
know? Like she knows her stuff she came to the table and she threw it down — I want people to
have that feeling about me. Like I just want them to feel like “oh yeah you go to her sets you're
definitely dancing” that's how I want to be remembered because that's that's how I feel about
myself.